nextjs-minting-platform-cip25/README.md, before:

# Cardano NFT Minting Platform

A Next.js application that demonstrates how to create CIP-25 NFTs on the Cardano blockchain using the Anvil API, Redis for caching, and wallet connectivity. This platform provides a simple, user-friendly interface for minting NFTs on Cardano.

## Features

- **CIP-25 NFT Minting**: Create standard-compliant NFTs on Cardano
- **Wallet Integration**: Connect with Cardano wallets using @ada-anvil/weld
- **Redis Caching**: Efficient data storage and retrieval
- **API Routes**: Secure backend implementation using Next.js API routes

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 18 or later)
- npm or yarn package manager
- Redis server (any datastore will work. Redis is only for this example)
- Cardano wallet (Eternl) Currently Eternl is the only wallet supported, but you can grab the entire list of wallets using CIP-30 functions.
- Anvil API access key

## Getting Started

### Environment Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local` and fill in your configuration values:

```
ANVIL_API_URL=https://api.anvil.io
ANVIL_API_KEY=your_anvil_api_key
POLICY_KEY_HASH=your_policy_key_hash
POLICY_SIGN_KEY=your_policy_private_key
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
TREASURY_BASE_ADDRESS=addr_test...
POLICY_EXPIRATION_DATE=your_policy_expiration_date ex: 2030-01-01
```

### Installation

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

### Running the Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

### Starting Redis

You can start Redis using one of the following methods:

```bash
# Using Docker
docker run -it --rm --name redis -p 6379:6379 redis

# Using Podman
podman run -d --name redis -p 6379:6379 redis

# Using the Redis service (Linux)
sudo service redis-server start
```

> **Note**: Redis is used in this example, but you can replace it with any database of your choice. The application is designed to be flexible with different data storage solutions.

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the application.

## How It Works

### Architecture

This application uses a combination of frontend and backend technologies:

1. **Frontend**: React components with Next.js for routing and rendering
2. **Backend**: Next.js API routes for secure server-side operations
3. **Database**: Redis for data caching and storage
4. **Blockchain Interaction**: Anvil API for Minting and Submitting Cardano transactions

### Key Components

- **WalletConnector**: Manages wallet connections using @ada-anvil/weld
- **MintForm**: Handles the NFT minting process
- **API Routes**: Process minting requests and transaction submissions
- **Redis Client**: Manages caching and data persistence
- **Anvil Integration**: Facilitates interaction with the Cardano blockchain

## API Endpoints

- **POST /api/mint**: Creates a new NFT minting transaction
- **POST /api/submit**: Signs and submits the transaction to the blockchain

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored securely in environment variables
- User input validation is implemented
- Authentication is handled through wallet signatures
- HTTPS is used for all external requests

## Development and Contribution

Feel free to fork this repository and submit PRs for any improvements. Please follow the code quality standards and git best practices outlined in the codebase.

## Resources

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)
- [Cardano CIP-25 Standard](https://cips.cardano.org/cips/cip25/)
- [Anvil API Documentation](ADD_URL)
- [Redis Documentation](https://redis.io/documentation)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: update readme and .env.example to match

nextjs-minting-platform-cip25/README.md, after:

# Cardano NFT Minting Platform

A Next.js application that demonstrates how to create CIP-25 NFTs on the Cardano blockchain using the Anvil API, Redis for caching, and wallet connectivity. This platform provides a simple, user-friendly interface for minting NFTs on Cardano.

## Features

- **CIP-25 NFT Minting**: Create standard-compliant NFTs on Cardano
- **Wallet Integration**: Connect with Cardano wallets using @ada-anvil/weld
- **Redis Caching**: Manages caching transactions during the minting process
- **API Routes**: Secure backend implementation using Next.js API routes

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 18 or later)
- npm or yarn package manager
- Redis server (any datastore will work. Redis is only for this example)
- Cardano wallet (Eternl) Currently Eternl is the only wallet supported, but you can grab the entire list of wallets using CIP-30 functions.
- Anvil API access key

## Getting Started

### Environment Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local` and fill in your configuration values:

```
ANVIL_API_URL=https://preprod.api.ada-anvil.app/v2/services
ANVIL_API_KEY=your_anvil_api_key
POLICY_KEY_HASH=your_policy_key_hash
POLICY_SIGN_KEY=your_policy_private_key
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
TREASURY_BASE_ADDRESS_PREPROD=your_treasury_base_address
POLICY_EXPIRATION_DATE=your_policy_expiration_date (YYYY-MM-DD format)
```

### Installation

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

### Running the Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

### Starting Redis

You can start Redis using one of the following methods:

```bash
# Using Docker
docker run -it --rm --name redis -p 6379:6379 redis

# Using Podman
podman run -d --name redis -p 6379:6379 redis

# Using the Redis service (Linux)
sudo service redis-server start
```

**Note**: Redis is used to temporarily store transaction data during the two-step minting process:

1. First, the system generates the NFT and sends a partial transaction for customer signature
2. Then, it retrieves the stored transaction, appends both customer and policy signatures, and submits it to the blockchain

While Redis is used in this implementation, you can replace it with another ephemeral storage solution that supports this workflow.

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the application.

## How It Works

### Architecture

This application uses a combination of frontend and backend technologies:

1. **Frontend**: React components with Next.js for routing and rendering
2. **Backend**: Next.js API routes for secure server-side operations
3. **Database**: Redis for data caching and storage
4. **Blockchain Interaction**: Anvil API for Minting and Submitting Cardano transactions

### Key Components

- **WalletConnector**: Manages wallet connections using @ada-anvil/weld
- **MintForm**: Handles the NFT minting process
- **API Routes**: Process minting requests and transaction submissions
- **Redis Client**: Manages caching and data persistence
- **Anvil Integration**: Facilitates interaction with the Cardano blockchain

## API Endpoints

- **POST /api/mint**: Creates a new NFT minting transaction
- **POST /api/submit**: Signs and submits the transaction to the blockchain

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored securely in environment variables
- User input validation is implemented
- Authentication is handled through wallet signatures
- HTTPS is used for all external requests
- Protect the Policy Key securely as it authorizes all minting transactions

## Development and Contribution

Feel free to fork this repository and submit PRs for any improvements. Please follow the code quality standards and git best practices outlined in the codebase.

## Resources

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)
- [Cardano CIP-25 Standard](https://cips.cardano.org/cips/cip25/)
- [Anvil API Documentation](ADD_URL)
- [Redis Documentation](https://redis.io/documentation)

## License

MIT
